---
layout: post
title: "Week 4 update"
---
What did you do last week?

Last week I worked on getting the boilerplate put together for a REACT project, and got a github repo set up, started researching the documentation for REACT, and sketched out some basic concepts for the mobile web "pages" (not really pages, REACT uses one page for everything), and some basic concepts for the database.

What do you plan to do this week?

This week I plan to work on getting a database and server going behind the boilerplate REACT, and work on getting some of the basics of the "for you" page working (load one or some files from a database, and enable the user to hit play). Basically just sit and code until I have a website with a working (though not necessarily perfect or pretty yet) webpage, with a server side and access to a database. 

Are there any impediments in your way?

Currently no impediments besides time. I need to research to see if I can make the server in Flask, or if I will need to learn some other framework for the server. I will also need to make sure that MySQL will work as a database, or if I will have to look at alternatives.
  

Reflection on the process you used last week, how can you make the process work better?

Last week my process was just to follow tutorials. This week is going to be more open ended, and is going to require researching the documentation. I'm going to use a combination of tutorials, docs, stack overflow, projects others have posted on github to try to gain a general idea of "what can I do" and then make decisions from there, and implement them. I'm certain I will make mistakes in this process, but that's part of the deal. 
  
