---
layout: post
title: Building SoundGalore: Week 2
---

- What did you do last week?

Last week I set up a jekyl site, and learned how to use jekyl, and practiced making a post. I also worked on brainstorming project ideas, at first I was thinking I wanted to do something with the JUCE framework, but now I'm thinking that doing a web-based project, with some audio involved, would be a practical portfolio project for me at this time. The idea I'm toying with right now, is an audio-based social-media app, where users can have a hands-free, eyes-free social media experience for situations like driving, or doing chores. Content could include: short jokes, short audio-skits, music, community "challenges" etc, and the main selling point is that you can consume it as background noise just like a podcast. 


- What do you plan to do this week?

This week I plan to finalize the proposal for the project, and start working on getting my environment set up with REACT, plus the rest of the stack. I'm also planning to start sketching out some basic ideas for different screens, and features to use, and looking over the documentation for REACT, and figuring out how I'm going to build the app.  


- Are there any impediments in your way?

Not really any impediments, just some weeds to get through with figuring out my stack and setting up the environment. 


-Reflection on the process you used last week, how can you make the process work better?

I think to make my process work better this week, I just need to refine my project idea a bit, so that I can start building.
