layout:post
title: Week 10 update
---
What did you do last week?


Last week I completed my Authentication process. It finally does what I want it to do: it asks for username and password, and the user enters their username and password correctly, it takes them to the “my feed” page, and if not, it gives a 401 response code to the console.

As a recap so far I have:

-  Created a simple audio player page in REACT 

-  Created a database in SQL-Lite, using SQL_Alchemy for easy porting down the road. It stores: Users, Follows, Posts, Media (links), Likes, Comments etc.  

-  Created endpoints in flask for authentication, api, pages etc.

-  Created a login page in REACT, and implemented authentication





What do you plan to do this week?



I plan to first create more test data. Now that I have users, I want to make them follow each other, I want to them to have posts associated with their profiles. This is building towards getting “my feed” to actually serve up posts from the user’s list of subscriptions, as it currently just plays a clip of test audio. 


Left to do (overview):

Implement “my feed” so that users actually get content from their subscribed content creators when they login (will require some work on the database, and some additional buttons on the audio player, and refactoring to get it to grab the audio from the right place.)

Create pages and endpoints for posting content, add new users from the UI

Implement Likes and Comments

Implement user profile pages, and UI for subscribing to users, viewing subscriptions

Fix up the design and make it look appetizing




Are there any impediments in your way?



Only impediments are just balancing this project with work and my other class (computer systems)



Reflection on the process you used last week, how can you make the process work better?

It was surprisingly complex for me to wrap my head around authentication as there were many new web development concepts I had to research over the last couple of weeks. For example: realizing you only store a hash of the password, so the actual password is never stored. Understanding how you store a cookie on the client side, which is protected by a “SECRET_KEY” environment variable that allows logins to persist. Understanding how to structure the post request JSON going to the endpoint, and getting a response back with response code.

I feel as though I learned a lot, and this will be a lot easier to handle next time. I’m hoping that as I practice this more, I’ll develop some fluency around web development. 
