---
layout: post
title: Building SoundGalore Week 6
---

What did you do last week?:

Last week I worked on learning more about React, and tweaking the settings of my "index.html", "manifest.json" to get everything set up for mobile development. I dove into a bunch of tutorial videos to get an idea of how the App.js file looks for a React project.

Some key things I discovered were the functions: useState(), useRef() and useEffect() and their uses. Understanding the syntax of "const [currentTime, setCurrentTime] = useState(0)" which was kind of strange to look at until I traced it in my head a few times. You're creating a "hook" in something that I guess is called a "hook state list", which is unaware of the name you are giving it, and then you're saving two objects that are giving you references to those unnamed entries on your "hook state list."

To me, this feels very new to me right now because we are essentially declaring a function using the syntax we normally use to declare a variable (because we are saving a reference to an anonymous function). 

What do you plan to do this week?

I'm writing this on a Thursday, so I've already worked on it a bit this week and created the very beginnings of a main page. I've worked on making a "play" and "pause" button that toggles when you click it, and an input slider that responds to the user's clicking and dragging. This is the very beginning, but it is a big milestone I feel in terms of understanding how React works. I plan to work more on this this weekend and hopefully get some actual audio playing, and build some more controls into the UI. 

Are there any impediments in your way?

I am finding out a lot of what I don't know and what I didn't anticipate. Little things like adjusting the viewport, and bigger things like realizing I could benefit from also using tailwinds. 

Reflection on the process you used last week, how can you make the process work better?

Last week I was a little more "stuck" because I was trying to think about getting several different files to work together, and there was a whole rabbit-hole about mobile-first web development that I had to go down for a bit. This week I'm getting more into a flow of just writing code, I'm hoping to continue more of that until I have more of an interface built, and more proficiency with maintaining my React code. 

